Gang Green

-----[ BIOLOGY ]-----

My race will be the [insert weird-sounding, unpronouncable race name here].
The name I give you is "Gang Green".  The race is comprised of two symbiotic
plant-like beings.  The first being, species 1 (the symbiee), is a cross
between a Bonsai tree and a turnip.  The second being, species 2 (the
symbiant), is a cross between ivy and a stick insect.  The race is united by a
single "hive mind" which governs all the actions of each of the "individuals".
The Bonzai-turnips are the brains and the ivy-stick-insects are the brawn.
Species 1 has developed a dual-brain system; the first brain for hive
conciousness and the second brain for independant thought.

Should the symbiant require additional manipulation devices (arms?) the host
can sustain a single additional species 2 pseudo-parasites (what do you call a
parasite that doesn't parasite?).  Similarly, should the being require
additional mental capacity, it can join with another Bonsai-turnip (connecting
via the species 2 symbiant) to increase the mental computing power of the
being.  The ratio of species 1 to species 2 in a single entity must always
remain in balance and must not deviate too much in either direction.  They are
hermaphroditic or asexual and reproduce by the use of spores and seed-like
bulbs that are planted in the ground or grown hydroponicly.

Let us denote a being with two species 1 brains and one species 2 body as "010"
with the 0's to represent each of the species 1 components and the 1's to
represent each of the species 2 components (order is not important).  A being
that is not "in balance", for example, would be "1110" with 3 species 2 and
only 1 species 1 specimen.  Add up all the 0's and add up all the 1's and they
should differ by no more than 1.  Neither species can live without the other
for any period of time.  An unbalanced being cannot survive for long without
being hooked to their race's equivalent to a total life support system.

-----[ PHILOSOPHY ]-----

Since the race is composed of symbiant lifeforms all linked by a single hive
mind, there can be no concept of "individuality" for them.  This lack of
individuality is simply an evolutionary measure to ensure that the race's
galactic sphere of influence is not weakened at its edges by distance from the
sphere's centre.  They react like killer bees do when threatened.  While they
do not feel any particular attachment to the idea of "the self" they still
realize that each being within the race is "born" different.  They feel that
this is a benefit to their race both tactically and biologically.

The race has always been a sedentary one.  It grows in numbers and then expands
its sphere outwards when there is sufficient need to do so.  The race is not
war-like, however, the need to expand is a frighteningly powerful urge for
them.  It is because of this need to expand and their past encounters with
races who got in their way that they devote almost their entire existance to
the conquest of new territory.  They grow like weeds and thus they are
instinctively conquerors.  They spread like a virus or like a colony of ants;
constantly growing and building.  They live for the swarm.  They die for the
swarm.

They remain mostly indifferent to outside races, however, they still remain
secretive for fear that foreign races will turn their attention to preventing
expansion.  This is the reason for hiding our numbers.  This is the reason that
we fight in a quick-in-quick-out manner.  This is the reason that we never
concentrate our efforts on any single part of our expansion borders.

Their government is comprised of an equal number of venerable and underaged
members.  The members of the council that are younger than the age of adulthood
are there to learn from the elders and also to ensure that the government
always has fresh ideas.  The elders of the council are chosen because they have
had considerable experience in their long years and they can benefit the
council by reminding them of the past and offering sage advice based on many
years of knowledge and learning.  Beings that have reached the age of adulthood
and have not yet advanced to the venerable stage are not considered for council
membership because they are too old and too educated to have original ideas and
not yet old enough to have attained the kind of experience that is required to
be an elder on the council.

-----[ TACTICS ]-----

Their tactics of expansion are rather different than one would expect.  Instead
of pouring massive amounts of resources into a long, drawn-out war with races
who stand in their way, instead they involve themselves in short, in-and-out
squirmishes with no real concentration of forces in any part of space along
their borders.  This is due to their secretive nature and wish to keep all
knowledge of their race numbers a mystery.  It is only if they are threatened
that they will swarm enemies in large numbers.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 16F /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 14F /   \ 14F /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ V   \___
                       /   \ 10  /   \  6  /   \ 19R /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \  6  /   \ 10R /   \  6R /             \
              ___/ V   \___/ C   \___/     \___/               \___
             /   \ 16R /   \ 40  /   \ 17F /                       \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/                         \___
D       /         /   \  6R /   \ 18F /                                 \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/                                   \___
   /             \  *  /   \ 12  /                                           \
  /               \___/     \___/                                             \
E \                   \ 17F /                                                 /
   \                   \___/                                                 /


                          Total Build    Points:    0
                          Total Research Points:   57
                          Total Research Teams :    2.85


   Research Goals:
    1. Increase lycopod stores aboard ship
    2. Introduce guidance systems on sap missiles


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak


At the recent encounter with the unknown fleet in sector C4 our military was
starting to focus its attention on sector D4 as a possible new sector for
expansion.  When the unknown fleet asked for permission to scan sectors C4, D4
and E4 we complied.  We permitted them to scan these sectors without telling
them that sectors D4 and E4 were not yet part of our empire.  We felt that this
small gesture will be interpreted by this new race as a symbol of peace.  If
they should encounter and engage the enemy in sector D4 so much so the better.
If they should win, sector D4 will be ripe for conquest.  If they should lose,
enemy defenses in sector D4 will be weakened and thus ripe for conquest.
Either way this acts in our favour.  Spare parts or a possible ally only time
will tell.

As we are preparing to conquer new territory, a good number of our colonies
have relaxed their "peace-time" military spending to increase production
levels.  The orbital ship incubators and greenhouses and hatcheries have been
put into pre-war mode.  Sentients have been pouring into these sectors of
increased activity.  The volunteer stations on homeworld have been nearly
overwhelmed in the past few weeks by the shear number of applicants.  We have
chosen high quality sentients to be sent to the research colonies to improve
technology development.  Luxury levels on the research colonies are still
comparatively higher than on planetary colonies even after being stretched
thinner by the increase in supported sentients.  This will help to maintain
efficiency and quality in our research.

The focus for our research will be improving upon existing technologies.  Our
research colonies have been experimenting with idea of putting spore incubators
and nutrient packs onboard a ship to increase their ability to grow more
lycopod spores while on the battlefield.  The goal is to increase the lycopod
spore colonies aboard ship by 50%.  It is thought that if enough spores could
be ejected that they could even obscure the ship on enemy sensors and make it
harder to hit.  Our encounter with the unknown fleet in sector C4 taught us
that our ships are slightly slower and less maneuverable than theirs.  It is
hoped that this improvement of the lycopod spore clouds will help to offset
this disadvantage.

Another avenue of research will be centered around our sap missiles.  Research
seems to indicate that there is a possibility of building smart missiles that
could respond to input from the hivemind and could then be steered towards the
target.  It may be possible to grow special species 1 offbreeds to serve as
guidance systems for the missiles and accept commands from the poison oak or
sapling ships in the area.  Some research will necessarily have to be put into
development of limited life support systems for the missiles while they remain
in the weapons bays of the ships to keep the guidance system alive between
battles.  The rest of the research teams have been given full authority to work
on whatever they wish.  Weapons system prototype tests will be conducted in
sector D4 when we invade it.  Live for the swarm.

---

Sector I4 was scouted by the aliens.  They found some sort of slowly-dispersing
proton cloud, and judging by the way it was dispersing, it seemed to be heading
along the '4' line.  They weren't really certain, however, and were seeking
additional data to confirm the vehicle's trajectory.  Having this information
and having had the chance to scour anywhere you own, you can find none of these
traces within the confines of your empire.

An invasion fleet is being prepared for the D4 invasion; a truly massive and
overwhelming thing.  Whatever was encountered in D4 by previous scouts was
notoriously fractious and surly--doubtless they will rue the day they dared
oppose the Gang Green.

Biogenetic engineers have begun work on increasing lycopod densities; a newer
and thermally dense nutrient broth was created (along with a little extra
genetic manipulation) that seems quite effective.  Not only are more spores
created, but the protective cysts have become significantly harder and more
durable as well.  A test drone, flown through the field, took significant
damage from the spores.

Hivemind Sap-Missile Guidance:  By reducing the engine, adequate room was made
for a rudimentary cockpit and a very simple-minded creature to pilot the
missile.  The Hivemind is now able to guide the missiles in manually, by giving
commands to the creature. (The Hivemind may guide up to its initiative bonus in
missiles--missiles in excess of this can be dumb-fired.)

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 18F /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 16F /   \ 16F /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ V   \___
                       /   \ 10F /   \  6F /   \ 19R /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \  6F /   \ 10F /   \  6F /             \
              ___/ V   \___/ C   \___/     \___/               \___
             /   \ 16F /   \ 40B /   \ 20R /                       \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/                         \___
D       /         /   \  6F /   \ 21R /                                 \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/                                   \___
   /             \  *  /   \ 12F /                                           \
  /               \___/     \___/                                             \
E \                   \ 20R /                                                 /
   \                   \___/                                                 /


                          Total Build    Points:   40
                          Total Research Points:   80
                          Total Research Teams :    4.00


   Research Goals:
    1. Improve pilot visibility in lycopod spore clouds
    2. Increase lycopod shots available
    3. Increase ship drive capabilities
    4. Introduce front-mounted engine ports


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       4         4      Gunnery Training


During our first attempt to invade sector D4 a bright and talented young pilot
was discovered.  This new pilot has been sent for training on homeworld at our
finest and oldest military academy.  Already battle-hardened, this young cadet
shows great promise and makes all of their hatchmates proud.  His seed batch
has been noted and spore samples have been taken to be further analyzed and
catalogued for the archives.  Their talents will be invaluable when we redouble
our efforts to win sector D4.

The fact that we lost nearly 50% of our battle fleet is inconsequential.  We
now have new information that we did not have before.  What is interesting is
that the enemy that we have seen along our borders seems to have a very strong
presence in that sector.  Perhaps some more information about the mysterious
anomaly that was seen in sector I4 can be gleaned by capturing an enemy ship
and scouring the sensor logs and onboard data stores.  We will attempt to do
this upon our return to sector D4.  It should be noted that the unknown fleet
that was encountered in sector C4 not too long ago was present in sector D4
during the invasion.  A hasty deal was struck with said fleet that had the
unknown fleet helped us would have ensured victory.  With much reluctance said
fleet did finally engage the enemy much later in the battle.  It is not known
what happened to the unknown fleet but the battle appeared to continue raging
on at the time of our retreat.  The high council raises some high doubts that
this newly encountered race can be trusted.  Extreme caution is recommended.

It is possible that some kind of deal may be struck with the enemy race with
which we share our coreward border.  While not much is known of them they may
prove to be invaluable allies. We shall attempt to open a communication channel
with any we encounter when again we visit sector D4.  A smart and worthy ally
will be tempted by the lure of conquest and see the wisdom of an alliance with
us.  We anticipate a fruitful and victorious campaign.  If they join us our
victory will come that much sooner.  Just as the great 'Heat Mother' predicted.

The improvements to the lycopod spore clouds were deemed a success.  The loss
of visibility for the crew, however, is a concern to the high council.  They
feel that improving upon this should be of utmost importance for the research
colonies.  It is hoped that an improvement to the targeting sensors and
supporting systems can be made so that the crew will be able to "see" through
the cloud more easily.  One of the research teams will be responsible for these
changes to the targeting and sensor systems.

The research teams will also be trying to increase the number of available
lycopod "shots" that a ship may produce.  This should be very easy to achieve
as this does not involve any changes to the technology itself.  Because of the
simple nature of this research project it will be given to our research
training facilities.  Young researchers aided by experienced researchers will
work jointly on all projects conducted there.  This is to increase the passing
of knowledge to younger researchers.  These steps also help the Master
Archivists because the ancient knowledge is told along with the new to be
recorded for the good of all.

The other two research teams shall be responsible for improving upon the ship
movement systems.  It was noticed during the recent encounters with the enemy
in sector D4 and the unknown race we encountered in sector C4 that our ships
seem to have slightly inferior drive capability.  This simply will not do.  One
team will look into increasing the overall efficiency of the ship's engines to
see if the speed of the ship can be increased by even a small margin.  The
other team will look into the possibility of adding jets to the front of the
ship to allow the option of reverse motion.  This last task should be a
relatively simple one as it will only involve the addition of output ports on
the front of the vessel.  The bulk of the research will be in developing a
system for the pilot to engage either the rear or front-mounted thrusters.

---

Work begins on spore-proof sensing equipment.  Research team A, assuming a
supervisory role over research team B, staffed primarily with Juveniles, were
able to design a sensory system no longer baffled by the presence of spores in
the same sector.  The ultimate modifications (based on the wisdom of age and
the quick thinking of youth) were very easily made, and all ships have been
retrofitted with the new device already.

New engine prototypes were developed for the Sapling and Bonsai, through
independant research efforts by Teams C and D.  All existant designs replaced
with new lycopods--production costs have increased as a result of the new
nutrient baths required.  Poison Oaks now cost 66 points, Saplings cost 44
points, Bonsais now cost 20 points.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 21F /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 18R /   \ 18R /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ V   \___
                       /   \ 12R /   \  7F /   \ 19F /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \  7F /   \ 12R /   \  7F /             \
              ___/ V   \___/ C   \___/     \___/               \___
             /   \ 18F /   \ 40D /   \ 20R /                       \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/                         \___
D       /         /   \  7F /   \ 21F /   \                             \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/ I   \                             \___
   /             \  *  /   \ 14F /   \  *  /                                 \
  /               \___/     \___/ I   \___/                                   \
E \                   \ 20R /   \  *  /                                       /
   \                   \___/     \___/                                       /


                          Total Build    Points:    0
                          Total Research Points:  100
                          Total Research Teams :    5.00


   Research Goals:
    1. Increase ship defensive capabilities
    2. Increase lycopod spore cloud density
    3. Increase ship lycopod stores
    4. Start reverse research on Crocodile ships


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       4         5      Pilot Training
                      P7       3         4      Gunnery Training


Excellent!  Our forces in D4 were victorious, however, our forces were not able
to completely erradicate the enemy from sector D4.  This fact only serves to
show the strength of the enemy fleet and the high council has decided that they
are worthy adversaries and that a pact could be signed with them in the near
future.  Our research facilities have begun to analyze and reverse-engineer the
derelict enemy ships that were towed back from the battle.  We have learned
that they are known throughout the galaxy as the "Electric Crocodiles".  There
were only a small number of light fighter-class ships collected but it is
possible that something may be learned from examination of their technology.
Priority will still be given to improving our current technology.

We shall be sending an ambassador into sector D4 to try to open a dialogue with
the Crocodiles. This is most effectively and impressively done by sneaking a
small fighter deep behind enemy lines and then suddenly announcing our presence
by broadcasting a message of truce.  The embassadorial ship, as is the custom,
shall be fitted with high explosives that will trigger when fired upon.

In light of the impending "peace talks" in sector D4, our invasion fleet has
been sent to sectors D8 and E7 to scout them for possible expansion.  A
combination of increased training and battle experience has hardened some of
our younger aces.  Their talents will be best put to use on our scouting
mission into sectors D8 and E7.

Some of the race we know as the "Angry Starfish" have made us an offer to hire
themselves as mercenaries in exchange for resources and labour.  A response was
not made by us nor has any part of their deal been argued or accepted.  Their
lack of help during the first invasion attempt has shown them to be dishonest
and weak.  It amuses us greatly to imagine forming a deal with the Crocodiles
and pitting the Starfish against our combined fleet.  Much can be learned by
making an emeny angry.  Much can be learned by blasting them and scooping up
bits of them that are floating about in space.

Our research colonies have been assigned the tasks of: improving the defensive
capabilities of our ships, increasing the lycopod "holding" capacities of our
ships and increasing the oclusion of the lycopod spore clouds.  Any idle
research teams will be put to use picking apart the technology taken from the
Crocodiles.

The task of improving our ship defensive capabilities could be improved by
manipulating the growing conditions aboard the orbital ship hatcheries.  It may
be possible to alter the shapes and angles of the hulls to deflect the kinetic
energies of enemy weapon systems.  Changing the properties of the growth medium
may allow us to alter the wavelengths that are reflected and absorbed by the
ship itself to help obscrure it from enemy sensors.

In was seen in sector D4 during the encounter with the Crocodiles that the
ability for ships to drop lycopod spore clouds was an excellent tactic.  The
only problem is that each ship only has a limited number of such clouds.  It is
hoped that something can be done to increase the number of spore cloud launches
available by at least 50%.  This appears to be a space concern so our engineers
could perhaps use information from our flight logs to help us to reduce
unnecessary ship components and lessen the wasted space aboard ship for the
increased number of spore growth vats.

It is also hoped that soon the densities of the spore clouds can be increased
again thereby increasing the oclusion of the clouds making the ship harder to
hit.  This was achieved with huge success by the introduction of nutrient vats
and nutrient fluids stored aboard ship.  It may be possible, however, to
increase the lycopod spore holding capacity by introducing a stasis field to
slow growth aboard ship.  This will help to increase both the density and also
the number of cloud launches possible by increasing the space available for
spore production.

---

Almost predictably, the second the transmitting ship was detected in alien
space, it was set upon by patrols, torn asunder with concentrated enemy fire.
The explosion was almost icing on the cake, really--there just wasn't much
left.  The aliens have, quizzically, become even more aggressive and vicious
than before, if that were at all possible.  How odd, how odd.

Some time later, a very patently obvious floating mine, mocked up shoddily to
look like an enemy light fighter, was floating through the periphery of
friendly space.  It was transmitting gobbledygook, something about 'pieces'.
Later research into the 'speech', if the babblings of another race could ever
be deciphered, uncovered something along the lines of 'fang floss', whatever
that was.

Sectors D8 and E7 are both unoccupied, at present.  In fact, there's almost
nothing there at all... almost.  Point-defense cannons on the scoutships in E7
were kept busy for awhile, as a freak shower of .93c microrocks pelted the
fleet; what rocks that made it through were enough to smash several fighters
into shards and seriously damage the carrier.  In D8, a preliminary scouting
uncovered a lack of any hospitable planets whatsoever, and in fact, an almost
complete lack of stars as well.  On the other hand, that proton dispersion
trail, whatever it was those 'Angry Starfish' were pursuing, was located
here... or more precisely, something matching the configuration of what they
found was located there, and markedly more dense than any information they
related to you.

Colonization of D8 proceeds apace, however... despite the essentially total
lack of resources there, there's just enough to eke out a worthwhile existance.
Sector D8--Void, value 5.

The first crew of engineers were able to increase the defensive abilities of
the Bonsai quite readily.  It was pretty obvious that some modest structural
improvements were called for, and this would produce obvious benefits in terms
of defensive performance.  A few of the prototypes are available (1 per three
normal Bonsais fielded) at a cost of 33 points each.  One Sapling is also
available, at a cost of 63 points.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 24F /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 18F /   \ 18F /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ V   \___
                       /   \ 12F /   \  8F /   \ 22F /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \  8F /   \ 12F /   \  8F /             \
              ___/ V   \___/ Cd  \___/     \___/               \___
             /   \ 21F /   \ 40D /   \ 20T /                       \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/                         \___
D       /         /   \  8F /   \ 24F /   \                             \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/ IV  \                             \___
   /             \  *  /   \ 16F /   \  5F /                                 \
  /               \___/     \___/ I   \___/                                   \
E \                   \ 20F /   \  *  /                                       /
   \                   \___/ I   \___/                                       /
   /                       \  *  /                                           \
  /                         \___/                                             \


                          Total Build    Points:    0
                          Total Research Points:    0
                          Total Research Teams :    0.00


   Research Goals:


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       3         5      Pilot Training


Colonization of D8 is well under way and is now self-sufficient.  The forces in
sector E7 have been reinforced by the forces present in the adjacent sector D8.
Colonization of sector E7 has been stepped up in preparation for moving on to
sector E6.  A large scouting party has been dispatched to sector E6 to probe
the sector thouroughly.

A second and final attempt will be made to make non-violent contact with the
Crocodiles in sector D4.  This time we shall attempt a long-range interstellar
communication with them using the information that we have learned from
studying their language both during our battles and from examining their
derelict ships.  We shall attempt the to make the communication from the border
of sector D4 but along the side towards the galactic core so as to help mask
our empire's location.

---

New colony at D8 reporting strange sensor sightings, but is otherwise doing
well.

The sap missiles come on external mounts, as they're far too large to contain
within the ship.  The lycopods are contained internally, in a custom-designed
lifesupport system to keep them alive and vigorous until delivery is required.
A very hasty kitbash was made, allowing an extra lycopod (with integral
lifesupport) to be placed inside hollowed-out sap missiles.

There's only one obvious problem: The external systems aren't terribly
efficient, and obviously liable to getting damaged beyond use when exposed to
gunfire.

Contact has been established with the Electric Crocodiles.  While no visuals
were possible, vox communications were, and this was adequate.  It appears that
the beasts are extremely territorial, but comparatively little interested in
conquest.  A border has been declared, and it appears to include your present
border--C4, D4, E4, E5 and E6.  They lay claim to F5 as part of their domain,
and make it clear that violating their borders will result in aggressive and
punitive action.

No treaty ideals have been forwarded beyond the desire for a secure and
inviolate border, at this present time.  It is postulated that a single,
unarmed ship may travel within the borders of their empire for diplomatic
purposes in the near future, and will not be attacked.  Anything other than
this will, on sight, with the usual lack of questions asked.

The unusual sitings in D8 have been noted in E7.  These appear to be fist-sized
(or smaller) chunks of rock in a loose formation, travelling at anywhere from
.5 to .7c.  These cloudlets of rocks are difficult to spot, due to their
diffused nature, and will doubtless cause a great deal of strife to whatever
they strike, due to their sheer kinetic energy.

Furthermore, the proton dispersion trail that so-interested the Starfish people
was detected here, somewhat more diffused than the trail spotted in D8, far
less diffused than the trail they spotted some goodly distance away.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 27B /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 21B /   \ 21B /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ V   \___
                       /   \ 14F /   \  9F /   \ 25D /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \  9F /   \ 14F /   \  9F /             \
              ___/ V   \___/ CD  \___/     \___/               \___
             /   \ 24D /   \ 40B /   \ 20F /   \                   \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/     \                   \___
D       /         /   \  9F /   \ 28F /   \  *  /                       \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/ IV  \___/                         \___
   /             \     /   \ 18F /   \  6F /                                 \
  /               \___/     \___/ IV  \___/                                   \
E \                   \ 23D /   \  5F /                                       /
   \                   \___/ I   \___/                                       /
   /                       \  *  /                                           \
  /                         \___/                                             \


                          Total Build    Points:  109
                          Total Research Points:    0
                          Total Research Teams :    0.00


   Research Goals:


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       4         5      Sapling


After the recent communication with the Crocodiles, it seems as though they do
not yet see the wisdom of an alliance with us.  Their idle threats do not scare
us.  We will show them our power by completing an impenetrable wall of heavily
defended sectors along our border with them.  If that does not convince them
then we shall have to make another show of force in sector D4.  Long live the
swarm.

We haven't heard back from the scouts sent to sector E6 before the
communication with the Crocodiles was established.  It is assumed that they
were either lost or are maintaining communications silence to avoid detection
due to their proximity to the enemy.  In either case, this means that there is
an enemy prescence in sector E6 and steps have been taken to bolster the
defenses in sectors D6 and E7.  It may also be possible that in the confusion
of the colonization of sector E7 that they were missed.  The central hive
clusters for the region closest to their last known position and adjacent
regions are searching for them.

Sector D5 has been placed on high alert and a large contingent of forces is
being assembled in that sector to provide immediate support for adjacent
sectors C4 and E5 should the Crocodiles attempt to invade.  There is still talk
among the council of elders about the possibility of speeding up the building
of defenses by using modified obital ship hatcheries.  In this way, it may be
possible to draw upon the resources from an adjacent sector to help in the
defense of that sector.

The war council has ordered that a scouting party be sent to sector D9.
Nothing is known of the area on that side of our empire.  This delegation will
give the impression that it is peaceful, however, they have been instructed to
gather as much information as possible in preparation for invasion.  It is
hoped that more information about the proton dispersion trail can be learned
from this excursion.  While we ourselves hold no particular interest in this
information, but perhaps this information can be traded with the Starfish as
part of an alliance agreement with them. If those Crocodile weaklings will not
conquer alongside us then maybe the Starfish will.  Fear us.  Join us or die.

---

You have your Build points, divided by 2, to spread around your defending
sectors however you choose.  (IE: Total up all the values of B sectors, divide
by 4, drop fractions, add percentages to defending sectors).

Fleet in sector E6 reporting.  The same trail as before is there, more
dispersed than in the other sectors.  With the telemetry data collected, a
curved path (circular?) is suggested.  The sector is, as E7 and D8, quite
empty.  Sector E6--value 5, type VI.

A fleet of peculiar design was detected at sector D8.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/     \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 27D /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 21F /   \ 21F /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ Vd  \___
                       /   \ 16R /   \ 10F /   \ 25D /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \ 10F /   \ 16R /   \ 10F /   \  *  /   \
              ___/ Vd  \___/ CD  \___/     \___/     \___/     \___
             /   \ 24D /   \ 40R /   \ 23F /   \                   \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/     \                   \___
D       /         /   \ 10F /   \ 32F /   \  *  /                       \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/ IV  \___/                         \___
   /             \     /   \ 21F /   \  7F /                                 \
  /               \___/ d   \___/ IV  \___/                                   \
E \                   \ 23D /   \  6F /                                       /
   \                   \___/ IV  \___/                                       /
   /                       \  5F /                                           \
  /                         \___/                                             \


                          Total Build    Points:    0
                          Total Research Points:   72
                          Total Research Teams :    3.60


   Research Goals:
    1. Improve the damage of the aphid blaster cannon
    2. Put some more effort into reverse engineering the Crocodile ships


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       4         5      Sapling


The defenses being built in sectors C4 and E5 are proceeding well but it looks
as though they will not be completed on schedule.  The war council has offered
to retrofit a number of our orbital ship hatcheries to help in the construction
project.  These could be towed into sectors C4 and E5 and, using resources from
adjacent D5, help speed up the construction of defenses in those sectors.  This
will not be necessary at this time because there are already a large number of
transports available to aid in the construction project.  This increase in the
number of workers and available materials will be enough to finish the project
on time without the need to take sector D5 offline.

The war council is impatiently awaiting a response from the scouting fleet in
sector D9.  They have been sent additional orders to look for signs of the
proton dispersion cloud in that sector.  It is thought that the proton
dispersion cloud could have passed by sector D9 on its course through the
galaxy.  The war council is becoming increasingly wary of the path of the
proton dispersion cloud. The signs that whatever it was has been passing just
along our border on the edge of the galaxy's core seems to indicate that it has
somehow detected our presence.

A separate scouting fleet has been sent into sector C11 to probe the area for
any signs of life.  As far as it is from homeworld, this section of space has
been scarcely explored until now and the war council fears the possibility of
attack.  Defenses in our outermost colony in sector B10 are in the final stages
of completion and circumstances are now favourable for exploration in this
region of space.

Our research colonies have been given the task of improving upon our primary
weapons system for our ships: the aphid blaster.  It is hoped that the damage
capabilities of this weapon could be improved upon.  We have put our most
talented specialists in the aphid systems to the task.

The war council has also asked that more work be done on the reverse
engineering of the Crocodile ships that were recovered during our last battle
with them.  We wish to learn more about their race and this information may
help us achieve a tactical advantage to be used in all theatres of our
campaign.  Their race seems to have a particular affinity for materials with
strange energy properties.  A few of our scientists have died from handling
parts of the Crocodile ships.  We wish to learn more about this so that we may
better understand their weapons systems. It may also be possible to repair some
of the damaged ships to be used in battle or for covert operations within the
Crocodile stronghold.  Our archivists and tacticians are now viewing our most
recent victory in sector D4 with renewed enthusiasm.

---

There are two possible solutions to upgrading the Aphid Blaster: The easiest
was to simply replace the design with the Boring Beetle Hullgrinder.  This was,
however, found to be too tedious.

The second solution at hand was the far most fun, by far:  A bunch of monkeying
about with the genetic structure of the aphids used, mainly making them much
more resistant to hard vacuum and impregnating their mandibles with diamond
edges.  Add the Aphid Blaster's Mark class in points as cost to field as a
prototype.

The secrets of the shattered Crocodile ships were finally goaded free.  These
were the light fighters of the force, but of considerable bulk; even larger
than your light fighters.  Their weapons were able to fire at some remarkable
range, though lost a great deal of accuracy extremely rapidly.  Their beams
fired bolts of electrical current through a vacuum, which has left your
engineers rather baffled; some quantum effect is supposedly being violated...
but obviously it isn't, as pilots on the receiving end of these weapons can
testify.

The ships flew by electronic repulsion as well.  The engine is little more than
a huge electromagnetic coil, using electromagnetic repulsion to fly.  Somehow,
some gewgaw creates charged particles near the front of the engine (but both
are absolute messes, bearing telltale aphid and beetle holes) and these are
shot through the engine.  It's not a terribly efficient way to accelerate, all
told, but boosting was possible in the form of cannistered particles to run
through the engine.  Cornering seemed to be a difficulty at this stage,
however.

The ship's sort of a wonder, in and of itself; it's made wholly of metal!
There's not a single organic element in the ship at all!  What's more, whatever
entity that used this ship had no need of photosynthesis at all!  An elaborate
system of equipment, designed to convert sound to radio waves, and a second
system of equipment that translates radio waves to sound, seems to serve as a
very crude telepathic hack.  A great proportion of the vessels seem dedicated
to the purposes of channelling electricity about, in rather severe quantities
in some cases, but the scientists feel confident they understand the most
important systems.  The rest are probably further hacks to produce other faked
telepathic senses.

The ships themselves aren't going to be repaired back to their previous
specifications; the damage was just too extreme.  It might be possible,
however, to plug all the holes in the ship itself, strip out the engine and
weaponry, and replace it with standard and known material.

Just to speed things up, scouting D9 and C11 will be distilled to one battle.
You win, you scout both.  You lose, you don't.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/ d   \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 27D /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 24F /   \ 24F /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ VD  \___
                       /   \ 16F /   \ 12F /   \ 25R /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \ 12F /   \ 16F /   \ 12F /   \     /   \
              ___/ VD  \___/ CD  \___/     \___/     \___/     \___
             /   \ 24R /   \ 40R /   \ 26D /   \                   \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/     \___/     \                   \___
D       /         /   \ 12F /   \ 37D /   \     /                       \
    ___/         /     \___/     \___/ IV  \___/                         \___
   /             \  *  /   \ 24D /   \  8F /                                 \
  /               \___/ D   \___/ IV  \___/                                   \
E \                   \ 23B /   \  7F /   \                                   /
   \                   \___/ IV  \___/ I   \                                 /
   /                       \  6F /   \  *  /                                 \
  /                         \___/     \___/                                   \


                          Total Build    Points:   23
                          Total Research Points:   89
                          Total Research Teams :    4.45


   Research Goals:
    1. Increase lycopod spore cloud obscurity
    2. Start work on Crocodile-Green hybrid hull design
    3. Start research on electro-sapping sap


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       5         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       4         5      Sapling


The recent excursion into sectors D9 and C11 have proven to be most helpful for
our cause.  We have seen that the race there is a most simple-minded race and
seems to demand material possesions in exchange for passage through their
space.  We have decided to test their intelligence by giving them a sample of
one of our sap missile systems.  It is obvious from our encounter with them
that they will be unable to use much of the technology behind what we have
given them.  They will be easy to conquer should they become a threat.

A diplomatic envoy has been dispatched to sector D4 to start the negotiations
for an alliance with the Crocodiles.  The war council has high hopes that they
can be enticed into conquering the galaxy at our side as equal partners.  If
they agree, the first line of business is the elimination of the threat from
the technology-lacking simple-minds we found in sectors D9 and C11.  The
Crocodiles' lust for battle and our excellent defensive capabilities will make
for a truly awesome combination.

A full fleet has been sent to sector E8 to investigate the sector for possible
colonization.  Not much is known about space closer to the galaxy core.  We
will be better able to study and explore this region of space by allowing our
colonies to grow closer towards the core.  Bolstering our strength by forming a
strong alliance with the Crocodiles will allow us to expand our territory more
safely because of our increased combined offensive power.

The research colonies have been given the task of increasing the ability of the
lycopod spore clouds to obscure the ship from enemies.  The upgrade to the
biosensors will also be made to account for the increased spore cloud density.
All of these improvements are being made to tried-and-true technology so little
difficulty is to be expected.

Work is also commencing on a new hybrid Crocodile-Green hull design.  The hull
will be a general-purpose light or medium design employing a composite
metal-organic material.  It is hoped that these new materials can be made more
durable but still be lightweight.  With the help of these new composite
materials it will be possible to better utilize the space available inside the
hull.  This may turn out to be the best method for increasing the available
shipboard lycodpod stores.

As a background task for the scientists, they have also been given the task of
altering the chemical composition of the sap in the sap missile systems so that
it will be able to draw electricity from a ship's power cells.  New formulas
can be tested on the captured Crocodile technology.

---

Sector D8 reports a small micrometeroid storm passing within two hundred
kilometers of the expanding colony site.  Nothing was damaged.

Ship production up 5% from base values.  Newfangled Aphid Blaster upgrades are
free.  Each causes +1 damage from previous models.

Thought there were certain individuals within the Great Collective that doubted
the lycopod densities could be increased, they were squelched with a great wave
of disdain when a later and greater breakthrough was made. A new breed of
spores were created that would fragment under sudden hard vacuum, producing
vastly more fragments than before.  By impregnating their feed material with
the armour plating wrenched from the Crocodile ships, the ensuing cloud is
highly reflective to all manner of sensory scans in all ranges.  Sensors have
had a hard time adjusting to it, though can compensate to an extent.  Enough
prototypes have been made to replace 25% of one scouting fleet's lycopod
stores, at a cost of +1 point per lycopod replaced.

Research was done on the researchers that died during the Crocodile-wreckage
investigations.  It was discovered that their cellular structure was quite
utterly demolished by whatever force the aliens were in such command of.
Clearly, material of a biological nature could convey this force, and it was
discovered that a sort of amber would work just famously and was the
best-suited for the task.

A number (25% of the available number, etc., etc) of Amber Missile prototypes
have been created.  These cost +1 point to field as prototypes.

Single ship sent to D4.  Report pending.  Fleet at E8 is not reporting yet.

---

This is the formal pact that has been agreed upon by both Gang Green and the
Electric Crocodiles.  The goal of such an alliance will be complete and total
domination of the galaxy.  Both parties shall be given equal shares of any and
all technologies captured or conquered by either party during the course of
this war.  Conquered sectors will similarly be distributed among both parties
equally by mutual agreement in the interests of continued peace.

As a gesture of good faith, Gang Green has begun development on two new hybrid
Crocodile-Green fighters that will be used to our advantage in the upcoming
invasion of sector F3.  These fighters will have elements of both of our
technologies and we will be providing our half of the technology for these and
future hybrid fighters for as long as this pact remains in effect.

The only requirements of this pact are non-aggression and active force
participation.  Non-aggression implies specifically that no sector owned by
either party may be violated by the other except where expressly stated and
that neither party may attempt to invade the other.  Active force
participation impiles that both parties must provide full military support for
each other when one or more of their sectors are threatened by an outside
party.

We will grant the Crocodiles free, safe passage through our space along
sectors: E5, D6, D7, C8, C9 and B10.  The Crocodiles will grant us free, safe
passage through their space along sector E4.  The purpose of granting said
passage is to allow us to aid each other when attacking a neighbouring empire.

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/ D   \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 27R /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 28R /   \ 28R /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ VD  \___
                       /   \ 19R /   \ 14R /   \ 25R /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \ 14R /   \ 18R /   \ 14R /   \     /   \
              ___/ VD  \___/ CD  \___/ d   \___/     \___/     \___
             /   \ 24R /   \ 40T /   \ 26D /   \                   \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/ d   \___/     \                   \___
D       /         /   \ 14R /   \ 37D /   \     /                       \
    ___/         /     \___/ d   \___/ IV  \___/                         \___
   /             \     /   \ 24D /   \  9F /                                 \
  /               \___/ D   \___/ IV  \___/                                   \
E \               /   \ 23R /   \  8F /   \                                   /
   \             /     \___/ IV  \___/ I   \                                 /
   /             \     /   \  7F /   \     /                                 \
  /               \___/     \___/     \___/                                   \


                          Total Build    Points:    0
                          Total Research Points:  248
                          Total Research Teams :   12.40


   Research Goals:
    1. Develop electric lycopod stasis field
    2. Increase shipboard lycopod stores
    3. Improve ship sensors to compensate for new reflective lycopods
    4. Develop electric lycopod repulsion field adaptation for ships
    5. Joint development of new medium-light fighter
    6. Joint development of new heavy-heavy fighter
    7. Give sap missiles the ability to cause damage
    8. Develop space mines for sector defense
    9. Improve terraforming ability
   10. Increase ship defense on Bonzai and Sapling designs
   11. Increase ship armour on Sapling and Poison Oak designs
   12. Increase ship drive on Poison Oak design


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       6         4      Pilot Training (2)
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       4         5      Sapling


The pact with the Crocodiles has been signed.  They have been given free
passage within our space through sectors: E5, D6, D7, C8, C9 and B10.  There
was much rejoicing throughout the empire.  This is the first time that we have
joined forces with another race.  It does appear, however, that this alliance
will prove to be most fortuitous.  Even the elders of the council, while
normally quite weary of other races, are enthusiastic about what this alliance
may mean for us.  Still, war makes strange bedfellows.

The fleet that engaged the race that stalks the galaxy core acted most heroicly
during the battle.  Their fleet commander has been promoted and is being sent
back to pilot's academy for further courses in the art of war.  After
completion of these courses, they are being sent to train with some of our
oldest and most distinguished retired fleet admirals so that they may learn
further.  This experience and training will be invaluable during the invasion
of sector F3 alongside our new allies.

Our research teams have been put into full production in preparation for the
upcoming invasion.  Serious attention has been given to the lycopod defense
system.  Our new allies have graciously allowed us to send teams of scientists
to work in conjunction with Crocodile scientists.  The focus of the
improvements will be: development of a lycopod stasis field to increase the
staying power of the clouds, increasing the lycopod stores aboard each ship,
improvements to the sensor arrays to compensate for the reflective lycopod
clouds and a repulsion field device based on captured Crocodile technology to
protect a ship bearing such a device from damage when entering a lycopod cloud.
This last device would be included in the new Crocodile-Green hybrid ship
designs.

A good portion of our efforts will be done in conjunction with our new allies
particularly for the development of the lycopod repulsion and attraction fields
and also for the development of two new hybrid fighter designs.  The first ship
design, a new medium-light fighter, will have our lycopod defense systems, the
lycopod repulsion device, a hivemind link and a other systems provided by the
Crocodiles.  Estimates predict that such a fighter would weigh about 20 tonnes.
Using data collected from the recent encounter with the race who stalks the
galaxy core, our scientists are working on a ship design that is much larger
than our current largest ships.  Estimates predict that such a ship could weigh
as much as 60 tonnes using current technology.  This new heavy-heavy fighter
will have our lycopod defense systems, the lycopod repulsion device, a hivemind
link, a cluster of next generation sap missiles and other systems provided by
the Crocodiles.  Once complete, these new ship designs will go into full
production after testing for the upcoming invasion of F3.

Orders have also been sent to the research colonies to improve upon the sap
missile systems.  The orders state that the missiles should be given the
ability to cause lasting damage to an enemy ship.  No more information was
given concerning what else was required.  The council trusts the good judgement
of the scientists in this matter.  Further orders were sent to develop space
mines for use in sector defense with the help of the captured Crocodile
floating mines.  Other teams have been asked to see into the matter of
improving our ability to terraform a sector more quickly with special emphasis
on improving our ability to terraform void sectors more quickly.

Remaining research teams have been assigned the tasks of: increasing defense
systems on the Bonzai and Sapling ship designs, increasing the armour on the
Sapling and Poison Oak ship designs and increasing the drive on the Poison Oak
ship design.

---

     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
       ___                             ___
A     /   \                           /   \
     /  /--- Sector Type          ___/ D   \___
     \  /--- Value/Order         /   \ 27B /   \
      \___/                  ___/     \___/     \___
B                           /   \ 28B /   \ 28B /   \
                        ___/     \___/     \___/ VD  \___
                       /   \ 19B /   \ 14B /   \ 25B /   \
                   ___/     \___/ V   \___/ V   \___/     \___
C                 /   \ 14B /   \ 18B /   \ 14B /   \     /   \
              ___/ VD  \___/ CD  \___/ D   \___/     \___/     \___
             /   \ 24B /   \ 40B /   \ 26B /   \                   \
         ___/     \___/ V   \___/ D   \___/     \                   \___
D       /         /   \ 14B /   \ 37B /   \     /                       \
    ___/         /     \___/ D   \___/ IV  \___/                         \___
   /             \     /   \ 24B /   \ 10B /                                 \
  /               \___/ D   \___/ IV  \___/                                   \
E \               /   \ 23B /   \  9F /   \                                   /
   \          ___/     \___/ IV  \___/ I   \                                 /
   /         /   \     /   \  8F /   \     /                                 \
  /         /     \___/     \___/     \___/                                   \
F \         \  *  /                                                           /
   \         \___/                                                           /


                          Total Build    Points:  385
                          Total Research Points:    0
                          Total Research Teams :    0.00


   Research Goals:


                     Name   P-Skill   G-Skill   Assignment
                     ----   -------   -------   ----------
                      P1       8         4      Poison Oak
                      P2       5         5      Sapling
                      P3       5         5      Bonzai
                      P4       5         5      Sapling
                      P5       4         6      Poison Oak
                      P6       5         5      Bonzai
                      P7       4         5      Sapling

---

Bonzai

 ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____
 Drive   13                 Drive   13                 Drive   13
 Defense 13                 Defense 13                 Defense 13
 Armour   3                 Armour   3                 Armour   3
 Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)
 [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]
 [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]

 ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____
 Drive   13                 Drive   13                 Drive   13
 Defense 13                 Defense 13                 Defense 13
 Armour   3                 Armour   3                 Armour   3
 Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)
 [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]
 [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]

 ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____   ID _____  PV  21 + _____
 Drive   13                 Drive   13                 Drive   13
 Defense 13                 Defense 13                 Defense 13
 Armour   3                 Armour   3                 Armour   3
 Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3         Damage Control 1-3
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO        Lycopods Mk. 2   OO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 2a  OOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)     2d6 + d___ + 2 (low+2)
 [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]   [  ][  ][12][a3][L*][a2]
 [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]   [ 8][ w][a1][ 4][  ][ X]

           Aphid Blaster              Lycopods Mk. 2
            Short  1-2  (+2 to hit)    1-6 (unlimited) point defense
            Medium 3-5                 3d6+4 (low+2) to ships
            Long   6-12 (-1 to hit)    -0 to hit; -2 to be hit

           Crit Table
             2   Pilot killed
             3   Link severed; Crew disabled until end of next turn
             4   ECM damaged; -4 defense; No jamming
             5   Broken limb; Pilot -2 to hit
             6   Lose 1 shot
             7   Minor shield damage; -2 defense
             8   Lose left or right turns
             9   Lycopod fires immediately
            10   Engines sputter; Drive 2 until end of next round
            11   Insect revolt; d3 for each shot remaining
            12   Reactor hit

---

Sapling

 ID _____  PV  44 + _____   ID _____  PV  44 + _____   ID _____  PV  44 + _____
 Drive   12                 Drive   12                 Drive   12
 Defense 12                 Defense 12                 Defense 12
 Armour   3                 Armour   3                 Armour   3
 Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO       Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO       Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO
 Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO       Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO       Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO   Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO   Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)
 [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]   [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]   [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]
 [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]   [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]   [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]
 [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]   [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]   [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]
 [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]

 ID _____  PV  44 + _____   ID _____  PV  44 + _____   ID _____  PV  44 + _____
 Drive   12                 Drive   12                 Drive   12
 Defense 12                 Defense 12                 Defense 12
 Armour   3                 Armour   3                 Armour   3
 Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___                 TTurn d___
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO       Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO       Lycopods Mk. 2   OOO
 Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO       Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO       Sap Mis. Mk. 1a  OOO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO   Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO   Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)
 [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]   [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]   [  ][  ][11][  ][  ][a3]
 [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]   [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]   [ 9][ m][L*][  ][ 7][ m]
 [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]   [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]   [a2][ m][ 5][L*][ w][ 3]
 [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [a1][ m][ 1][  ][  ][ X]

           Aphid Blaster              Lycopods Mk. 2
            Short  1-2  (+2 to hit)    1-6 (unlimited) point defense
            Medium 3-5                 3d6+4 (low+2) to ships
            Long   6-12 (-1 to hit)    -0 to hit; -2 to be hit

  Sap Missiles Mk. 1a
   Drive 12
   1   Engine ports clogged; Drive at 2       4     Next shot does (low+0)
   2   Cockpit gooked; -3 to hit              5     Short=Med range, Med=Long
   3   Manouever thrusters hit; +1 mv turns   6-8   Nothing happens

           Crit Table
             2   Pilot killed
             3   Link severed; Crew disabled until end of next turn
             4   ECM damaged; -4 defense; No jamming
             5   Broken limb; Pilot -2 to hit
             6   Missile lost
             7   Minor shield damage; -1 defense
             8   Hull twisted; +1 movement for all manouevers
             9   Lycopod fires immediately
            10   Lose d3 shots
            11   Missile goos own ship
            12   Reactor hit

---

Poison Oak

 ID _____  PV  67 + _____   ID _____  PV  67 + _____   ID _____  PV  67 + _____
 Drive   10                 Drive   10                 Drive   10
 Defense 12                 Defense 12                 Defense 12
 Armour   4                 Armour   4                 Armour   4
 Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4         Damage Control 1-4
 Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____   Pilot ____  PGunner ____
 TTurn d___  GunnerA ____   TTurn d___  GunnerA ____   TTurn d___  GunnerA ____
 Lycopods Mk. 2   OOOO      Lycopods Mk. 2   OOOO      Lycopods Mk. 2   OOOO
 Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc            Pilot Front Arc
 Beetle HG        OOOO      Beetle HG        OOOO      Beetle HG        OOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 1 (med+1)     2d6 + d___ + 1 (med+1)     2d6 + d___ + 1 (med+1)
 Gunner Front 5 Arc         Gunner Front 5 Arc         Gunner Front 5 Arc
 Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOO    Aph. Bl. Mk. 3a  OOOOOO
  2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)     2d6 + d___ + 3 (low+3)
 [  ][  ][  ][10][  ][  ]   [  ][  ][  ][10][  ][  ]   [  ][  ][  ][10][  ][  ]
 [  ][  ][ 9][a4][  ][L*]   [  ][  ][ 9][a4][  ][L*]   [  ][  ][ 9][a4][  ][L*]
 [ 8][  ][  ][ w][  ][ 7]   [ 8][  ][  ][ w][  ][ 7]   [ 8][  ][  ][ w][  ][ 7]
 [  ][a3][  ][ 6][  ][L*]   [  ][a3][  ][ 6][  ][L*]   [  ][a3][  ][ 6][  ][L*]
 [  ][  ][ 5][  ][  ][a2]   [  ][  ][ 5][  ][  ][a2]   [  ][  ][ 5][  ][  ][a2]
 [ 4][ w][  ][  ][  ][ 3]   [ 4][ w][  ][  ][  ][ 3]   [ 4][ w][  ][  ][  ][ 3]
 [L*][  ][  ][ 2][a1][  ]   [L*][  ][  ][ 2][a1][  ]   [L*][  ][  ][ 2][a1][  ]
 [  ][  ][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [  ][  ][ 1][  ][  ][ X]   [  ][  ][ 1][  ][  ][ X]

           Aphid Blaster              Lycopods Mk. 2
            Short  1-2  (+2 to hit)    1-6 (unlimited) point defense
            Medium 3-5                 3d6+4 (low+2) to ships
            Long   6-12 (-1 to hit)    -0 to hit; -2 to be hit

         Boring Beetle Hull Grinder    Fleet Overseer Hivemind Mindlink
          Short   1-3  (+2 to hit)      For every 2 concious Sapling and
          Medium  4-9                   Poison Oak pilots in battle gain
          Long   10-15 (-2 to hit)      +1 init (max. bonus 5)
          (double damage on doubles)

           Crit Table
             2   Pilot killed
             3   Link severed; Crew disabled until end of next turn
             4   ECM damaged; -4 defense; No jamming
             5   Broken limb; Pilot -2 to hit
             6   Hivemind stunned; No init bonus next turn
             7   Minor shield damage; -1 defense
             8   Aphid shot lost
             9   Lycopod fires immediately
            10   Hivemind goes insane; Init bonus now penalty
            11   Beetle revolt; d6 for each shot remaining
            12   Reactor hit
