How to Install OSMC (Kodi + Raspbian) on a Raspberry Pi

1.  Download an image file.  Go to osmc.tv (https://osmc.tv/download/-> Disk
mmages) and fetch a new image or else pull a recently downloaded one off your
local storage somewhere.  Make sure to get the one for the appropriate model of
Raspberry Pi (0, 1, 2 or 3).  These instructions should be roughly pertient for
versions circa July 2017 and onwards.

2.  Flash the image file to your desired microSD card.  If you are flashing
this using a machine with an SD card reader, the device below will likely be
named "/dev/mmcblk0".  If you are flashing this on a machine with a USB reader,
the device below will likely be named "/dev/sdb" or "/dev/sdc".  Plug the
device in and then type "sudo dmesg" to look at the last few lines of output to
see the most recent hotplug events for the name of the applicable device.  Make
sure you specify the device itself (e.g.:  "/dev/mmcblk0" or "/dev/sdb") rather
than the partition number (e.g.:  "/dev/mmcblk0p1" or "/dev/sdb1").

Next, pop open a new terminal window and type the following command (again,
make sure the output file or "of" is set to the correct device location
mentioned above;  you may omit the "status=progress" part if your version of dd
doesn't support it or if you don't care about seeing a progress meter):

zcat $(find . -name OSMC*.img.gz) | sudo dd of=/dev/mmcblk0 bs=16M \
status=progress && sync
# ... or something like...
zcat OSMC_TGT_rbp2_20170803.img.gz | sudo dd of=/dev/sdb bs=16M \
&& sync

3.  Once your flashing is complete, plug everything back in again.  After a few
minutes, when the command prompt returns to being interactive again (the
"user@host:~$ " part of the command prompt is again printed on a fresh line to
indicate that it is waiting for new user input), just pop out the microSD card
and reinsert it into the Raspberry Pi.  Next, plug in ALL THE THINGS again and
let the unit boot up fully.

4.  Do the basic configuration steps.  After the units boots, the first thing
you'll be forced to set up is the language, timezone and hostname settings and
so on.  I usually pick "English", "America/Toronto" and "osmc" for mine.  Leave
the SSH service enabled.  Select your desired "Look + Feel" and choose whether
you want to sign up for the email newsletter and then exit the setup wizard
stuff.

5.  Pull in local file sources.  Go to "Videos" -> "Files" -> "Add videos" ->
"Browse".  Enter "smb://booya/somewhere/movie" for the location, hit OK to
accept the new location and then OK to accept the default name to assign to
this location.  "This directory contains" -> "Movies" -> OK.  "Do you want to
refresh information for all items within this path" -> No.  Do the same thing
again for "television".

6.  Fix the default regional settings.  Go to "Settings" -> "Interface" ->
"Regional" -> "Unit Formats" -> "Region default format" -> "USA (24h)".

7.  Fix the default subtitles settings.  Go to "Settings" -> "Player" ->
"Language" -> "Subtitles" -> "Preferred subtitle language" -> "None".

8.  Install a few mundane plug-ins.  Go to "Settings" -> "Add-on browser" and
select "Install from repository".  Go into the "Kodi Add-on repository".  Under
"Video add-ons", install the "HDHomeRun", "HGTV" and "HGTV Canada" plug-ins.

9.  Set up the codecs (assuming you have purchased and received these already).
You will want to set up all the codec gunk so the GPU is enabled with full
hardware-assisted video decoding.  On all my units, I printed out all the codec
information for each individual unit on stickers mounted to the side of the
Raspberry Pi case right next to the HDMI connector.  Go to the "My OSMC" menu,
enter "Pi Config" and head down to the "GPU Mem & Codec" submenu.  Enter the
exact hexadecimal strings for your unit into the MPG2 and/or WVC1 License
fields including the "0x" prefix, e.g.:  "0xdeadb33f".  Do the "OK" thing to
save your new settings and then reboot your Raspberry Pi.

After the Raspberry Pi has done rebooting, go back in again to the "My OSMC"
menu, enter "Pi Config" again and check the "GPU Mem & Codec" submenu again.
Make sure you see the strings above your newly entered codec say "MPG2=enabled,
WVC1=enabled" (or similar, if you don't have a given codec entered, do not
expect it to say "enabled";  if you do NOT see "enabled" for a codec that you
entered properly, then go panic and commence heavy drinking because your $2
codec failed to work with this unit... go buy another one or check your notes
again for typos;  you will need to reboot each time to confirm that the new
value "took" properly).  Once you have finished confirming the codecs are
enabled, move onto the next step.
