source/raspberry_pi/print_server.rst, before:

Pi Print Server
===============


OS
--

Install Raspbian Lite as per the instructions found in first_boot_.
.. _first_boot: first_boot.rst


Setup
-----

::

    sudo apt-get --yes install avahi-daemon cups python-cups
    sudo apt-get --yes install printer-driver-brlaser

::

    # Add user to 'lpadmin' group
    sudo usermod -a -G lpadmin ${USER}
    newgrp lpadmin

::

    wget -c https://njh.eu/Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd
    mv Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd /usr/share/ppd/custom

Or, fetch it here at brother_hl-2240d_ppd_.

.. _brother_hl-2240d_ppd: Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd

::

    sudo cp /etc/cups/cupsd.conf /etc/cups/cupsd.conf.orig

    # Comment out all 'Listen' lines
    sudo sed -i '/^Listen /s/^/# /' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf

    # Add 'Port 631' before 'Listen' lines
    if ! grep Port /etc/cups/cupsd.conf; then
        sudo sed -i '/Listen localhost:631/i Port 631' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
    fi

    # Add 'Allow @Local' after each 'Order allow,deny'
    if ! grep Allow /etc/cups/cupsd.conf; then
        sudo sed -i '/Order allow,deny/a Allow @Local' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
    fi



Printer Setup
-------------

Visit https://hostname:631/admin/.

Select 'Adding Printers and Classes' and then 'Add Printer'.  Pick USB printer
from 'Local Printers' and click 'Continue'.  Next to 'Sharing', tick the 'Share
This Printer' box.  In the 'Model' list, pick the 'Brother HL-2240D
Foomatic/hpijs-pcl5e (recommended) (en)' option and click 'Add Printer'.

Remove the 'PDF' printer, choose the new printer and, under 'Maintenance',
select 'Set As Server Default'.



Background
----------

* https://njh.eu/printer.html
* http://blog.pi3g.com/2013/08/using-the-raspberry-pi-as-cups-print-server-for-windows-and-apple-mac-airprint/
* http://support.brother.com/g/b/downloadlist.aspx?c=us&lang=en&prod=hl2240_us_eu&os=128

Commit message:

Minor corrections to the printer server setup

source/raspberry_pi/print_server.rst, after:

Pi Print Server
===============


OS
--

Install Raspbian Lite as per the instructions found in first_boot_.
.. _first_boot: first_boot.rst


Setup
-----

Prepare to use CUPS::

    # Install necessary printer packages
    sudo apt-get --yes install avahi-daemon cups python-cups
    sudo apt-get --yes install printer-driver-brlaser

    # Add a user to the 'lpadmin' group (and refresh list without logging out)
    # This is needed for the web admin login for CUPS
    sudo usermod -a -G lpadmin ${USER}
    newgrp lpadmin

If you're using a printer that is well-supported by the "printer-driver-brlaser" package (https://packages.debian.org/bullseye/printer-driver-brlaser) you won't need to do anything here.  If not, you might need to fetch a PPD file like this::

    wget -c https://njh.eu/Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd
    mv Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd /usr/share/ppd/custom

Or, fetch it here at brother_hl-2240d_ppd_.

.. _brother_hl-2240d_ppd: Brother-HL-2240D-hpijs-pcl5e.ppd

Then, fix up the CUPS config file to allow remote administration via the web interface::

    sudo cp /etc/cups/cupsd.conf /etc/cups/cupsd.conf.orig

    # Comment out all 'Listen' lines
    sudo sed -i '/^Listen /s/^/# /' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf

    # Add 'Port 631' before 'Listen' lines
    if ! grep Port /etc/cups/cupsd.conf; then
        sudo sed -i '/Listen localhost:631/i Port 631' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
    fi

    # Add 'Allow @Local' after each 'Order allow,deny'
    if ! grep Allow /etc/cups/cupsd.conf; then
        sudo sed -i '/Order allow,deny/a Allow @Local' /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
    fi

    sudo /etc/init.d/cupsd restart



Printer Setup
-------------

XXX FIXME TODO Clean this part up!!!

Visit https://hostname:631/admin/.

Select 'Adding Printers and Classes' and then 'Add Printer'.  Pick USB printer
from 'Local Printers' and click 'Continue'.  Next to 'Sharing', tick the 'Share
This Printer' box.  In the 'Model' list, pick the 'Brother HL-2240D
Foomatic/hpijs-pcl5e (recommended) (en)' option and click 'Add Printer'.

Remove the 'PDF' printer, choose the new printer and, under 'Maintenance',
select 'Set As Server Default'.



Background
----------

* https://njh.eu/printer.html
* http://blog.pi3g.com/2013/08/using-the-raspberry-pi-as-cups-print-server-for-windows-and-apple-mac-airprint/
* http://support.brother.com/g/b/downloadlist.aspx?c=us&lang=en&prod=hl2240_us_eu&os=128
